download.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Links & Downloads
---

### For Users
- [Supported platforms](/faq/#what-platforms-does-sasview-run-on)

**Release versions:**

_(Mac Users: Please ensure you have the [Xcode](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Xcode) command line tools installed before installing SasView; get it from the App Store. If you also get an error message that Apple cannot check the .dmg file for malicious software, Control-click on the .dmg to override)_

 We recommend that you avoid using installation folder paths which contain spaces, non-Latin characters or characters not available on a standard keyboard.

- [Current release version of SasView 5.x](https://github.com/SasView/sasview/releases/tag/v5.0.5 "SasView download")
- [Current release version of SasView 4.x](https://github.com/SasView/sasview/releases/tag/v4.2.2 "SasView download")

**Previous versions:**

_(Note: Version 4.2.0 was the last version to be built for 32-bit operating systems)_

- [All versions from v3.0](https://github.com/SasView/sasview/tags "SasView download") (click on the version number for more information)
- To download versions of SasView before v2.2 please go to the old [SansView](http://danse.chem.utk.edu/sansview.html#downloads) website
  
**Plug-in Model Marketplace:**

Looking for new models, or wish to contribute a model? Visit the Marketplace. It's free!
- [http://marketplace.sasview.org/](http://marketplace.sasview.org/)

**Getting Help:**

If you are having problems,
- First check our [Frequently Asked Questions](/faq)
- Otherwise to report bugs, or for help using SasView, please contact us at: [help@sasview.org](mailto:help@sasview.org)
- Or you can also try asking other SasView Users! Email [users@sasview.org](mailto:users@sasview.org) or visit the [Users Forum Archives](http://lists.sasview.org/pipermail/users)

  

### For Developers
**Current information:**
- [Source code repository](https://github.com/SasView/sasview) on Github
- [Official SasView builds](http://builds.sasview.org) from our Jenkins Server
- [Project Wiki](http://wiki.sasview.org/) - a source for project information and HowTo documents
- [Full SasView Sphinx Documentation](/docs) for the latest build
- [Class Documentation Index](/docs/dev/dev.html) for the latest build

**Old/historical information:**
- [Old Sourceforge repository](http://sourceforge.net/p/sasview/code/) - Closed to commits February 2015
    <!--*   [Old SansView source code repository](http://sansviewproject.svn.sourceforge.net/viewvc/sansviewproject/)-->
    <!--*   [Old DANSE repositories](http://danse.us/admin/repolist)-->
- [Old Project Wiki](http://trac.sasview.org/wiki/)

For developer questions please contact the developers at: [developers@sasview.org](mailto:developers@sasview.org) or visit the [Developer Archives](http://lists.sasview.org/cgi-bin/mailman/private/developers/) (note: a developer login is required to access these)
<!-- or visit the [archives](https://sourceforge.net/p/sasview/mailman/sasview-users/) (note: a developer login is required to access archives)-->

  

### Other Resources
- The new [SAS Portal](http://www.smallangle.org) aims to be an access point for all information related to SAS and should be a great resource for any SAS question.
- Some of the same great Team developing SasView are also engaged in a new project called [CCP-SAS](http://www.ccpsas.org) for atomistic structure determination from solution small-angle scattering. Check it out!
- The [canSAS group](http://www.cansas.org) develops standards and data formats for SAS.
- The [Scattering-Central](https://github.com/scattering-central) repository of (mostly) legacy SAS software

  
  
### Acknowledging SasView

If you found this sofware useful to your work please dont forget to acknowledge its use in your publications as suggested below and reference this website: [www.sasview.org](http://www.sasview.org). Please also consider letting us know by sending us the reference to your work. We will add it to our list of [publications](/publications). This will help us to ensure the long term support and development of the software.

> _This work benefited from the use of the SasView application, originally developed under NSF award DMR-0520547. SasView also contains code developed with funding from the European Union's Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under the SINE2020 project, grant agreement No 654000._

Commit message:

Add link for subscribing to Users list to download page

download.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Links & Downloads
---

### For Users
- [Supported platforms](/faq/#what-platforms-does-sasview-run-on)

**Release versions:**

_(Mac Users: Please ensure you have the [Xcode](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Xcode) command line tools installed before installing SasView; get it from the App Store. If you also get an error message that Apple cannot check the .dmg file for malicious software, Control-click on the .dmg to override)_

 We recommend that you avoid using installation folder paths which contain spaces, non-Latin characters or characters not available on a standard keyboard.

- [Current release version of SasView 5.x](https://github.com/SasView/sasview/releases/tag/v5.0.5 "SasView download")
- [Current release version of SasView 4.x](https://github.com/SasView/sasview/releases/tag/v4.2.2 "SasView download")

**Previous versions:**

_(Note: Version 4.2.0 was the last version to be built for 32-bit operating systems)_

- [All versions from v3.0](https://github.com/SasView/sasview/tags "SasView download") (click on the version number for more information)
- To download versions of SasView before v2.2 please go to the old [SansView](http://danse.chem.utk.edu/sansview.html#downloads) website
  
**Plug-in Model Marketplace:**

Looking for new models, or wish to contribute a model? Visit the Marketplace. It's free!
- [http://marketplace.sasview.org/](http://marketplace.sasview.org/)

**Getting Help:**

If you are having problems,
- First check our [Frequently Asked Questions](/faq)
- Otherwise to report bugs, or for help using SasView, please contact us at: [help@sasview.org](mailto:help@sasview.org)
- Or you can also try asking other SasView Users! Email [users@sasview.org](mailto:users@sasview.org) or visit the [Users Forum Archives](http://lists.sasview.org/pipermail/users)

**Join the SasView Users Mailing List**
- Want to get the inside scoop on all things SasView? Why not join our Users Mailing List! Sign up [here](http://lists.sasview.org/cgi-bin/mailman/listinfo/users).
  
### For Developers
**Current information:**
- [Source code repository](https://github.com/SasView/sasview) on Github
- [Official SasView builds](http://builds.sasview.org) from our Jenkins Server
- [Project Wiki](http://wiki.sasview.org/) - a source for project information and HowTo documents
- [Full SasView Sphinx Documentation](/docs) for the latest build
- [Class Documentation Index](/docs/dev/dev.html) for the latest build

**Old/historical information:**
- [Old Sourceforge repository](http://sourceforge.net/p/sasview/code/) - Closed to commits February 2015
    <!--*   [Old SansView source code repository](http://sansviewproject.svn.sourceforge.net/viewvc/sansviewproject/)-->
    <!--*   [Old DANSE repositories](http://danse.us/admin/repolist)-->
- [Old Project Wiki](http://trac.sasview.org/wiki/)

For developer questions please contact the developers at: [developers@sasview.org](mailto:developers@sasview.org) or visit the [Developer Archives](http://lists.sasview.org/cgi-bin/mailman/private/developers/) (note: a developer login is required to access these)
<!-- or visit the [archives](https://sourceforge.net/p/sasview/mailman/sasview-users/) (note: a developer login is required to access archives)-->

  

### Other Resources
- The new [SAS Portal](http://www.smallangle.org) aims to be an access point for all information related to SAS and should be a great resource for any SAS question.
- Some of the same great Team developing SasView are also engaged in a new project called [CCP-SAS](http://www.ccpsas.org) for atomistic structure determination from solution small-angle scattering. Check it out!
- The [canSAS group](http://www.cansas.org) develops standards and data formats for SAS.
- The [Scattering-Central](https://github.com/scattering-central) repository of (mostly) legacy SAS software

  
  
### Acknowledging SasView

If you found this sofware useful to your work please dont forget to acknowledge its use in your publications as suggested below and reference this website: [www.sasview.org](http://www.sasview.org). Please also consider letting us know by sending us the reference to your work. We will add it to our list of [publications](/publications). This will help us to ensure the long term support and development of the software.

> _This work benefited from the use of the SasView application, originally developed under NSF award DMR-0520547. SasView also contains code developed with funding from the European Union's Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under the SINE2020 project, grant agreement No 654000._
