---
layout: post
title: Version 3.1.0
tags: [release, download]
---

### What's new in version 3.1.0

*   The documentation/help has had a complete overhaul including:

*   A completely new presentation interface (Sphinx).
*   Proof reading!
*   Updating for latest features.
*   A Help (or sometimes ?) button has been added to every panel, and some sub panels if appropriate, linking to the appropriate section in the documentation.
*   The model help has been split so that the Details button now brings up a very short pop-up giving the equation being used while HELP goes to the section in the full documentation describing the model.
*   Extensive help has also been added for the new optimizer engine (see below) including rules of thumb on how and when to choose a given optimizer and what the parameters do.

*   The optimizer engine has been completely replaced. The new optimizer still defaults to the standard Levenberg-Marquardt algorithm. However 4 other optimizers are now also available. Each starts with a set of default parameters which can be tuned. The DREAM optimizer takes the longest but is the most powerful and yields rich information including full parameter correlation and uncertainty plots. A results panel has been added to accommodate this.
*   The five new optimizers are:

    *   A Levenberg-Marquardt optimizer
    *   A Quasi-Newton BFGS optimizer
    *   A Nelder-Mead Simplex optimizer
    *   A Differential Evolution optimizer
    *   A Monte Carlo optimizer (DREAM)

*   New models were added:

    *   MicelleSphCoreModel (currently residing in the Uncategorized category)

*   Existing models were updated:

    *   LamellarPS (bug in polydispersity integration fixed)
    *   RectangularPrismModel
    *   RectangularHollowPrismModel
    *   RectangularHollowPrismInfThinWallsModel

*   A number of bugs were fixed including a thread crashing issue and an incorrect slit smearing resolution calculation.
*   Implemented much more robust error logging to enable much easier debugging in general but particularly the debugging of issues reported by SasView users.

