---
layout: post
title: Version 4.0.0-alpha-2
tags: [alpha, download]
---

SasView 4.0 Alpha2 was released May 28, 2016.

### What's new in version 4.0 alpha

*   This alpha release brings a major overhaul of the model system. The new model package allows rapid integration of custom models and access to polydispersity without requiring a compiler.
  
*   Model package changes and improvements:

*   Model interface moved to independent sasmodels package.
*   Most models converted to new interface.
*   Allows rapid integration of user-written models.
*   OpenCL GPU utilization for faster fitting.
*   Improved numerical integration of Bessel functions.

*   SESANS integration and implementation:

*   Scripting interface added for analysis of SESANS data.
*   Hankel transformation now accepts finite acceptance angles.
*   2D cosine transformation added for TOF SESANS analysis.

*   Documentation improvements:

*   The documentation tree was restructured for a better end user experience.
*   The documentation for each model was revamped and verified by at least two people following the conversion of the model.
*   Theoretical 1D (and 2D if applicable) scattering curves are auto-generated and added to the model documentation for each model.

*   Separation of GUI and calculations for future GUI enhancements.
*   Bug fixes:

*   Fixes bug #411 No stop button on simultaneous fit page
*   Fixes bug #410 Error with raspberry model
*   Fixes bug #364 Possible inconsistency in Poly\_GausCoil model
*   Fixes bug #439 Hayter Penfold MSA code needs checking
*   Fixes bug #484 lammellerPC is precision limited
*   Fixes bug #498 $HOME/.matplotlib conflicts
*   Fixes bug #348 Control order in which fit parameters appear in the gui
*   Fixes bug #456 Provide DREAM Results Panel with something to identify data and age of results
*   Fixes bug #556 Build script improvements for developers
