---
layout: post
title: Version 4.1.0
tags: [release, download]
---

Version 4.1.0 was released March 30, 2017 - adds fitting of SESANS data among many other things.

### What's new in version 4.1

*   This point release brings a series of new features and improvements, and a host of bug fixes. Of particular note are:

*   **SasView 4.1 will be the last version of SasView that will support native 32-bit operating systems.**

*   Correlation Function Analysis

*   This performs a correlation function analysis of one-dimensional SAXS/SANS data using Adam Washington\`s CorfuncPy package. This essentially provides the capability of the old CCP13 _CORFUNC_ package to the current generation of small-angle scatterers.
*   A correlation function may be interpreted in terms of an imaginary rod of a given length moving through the structure of the material under study. It is the probability that the rod will have equal electron/neutron scattering length density at either end. Hence, repeatedly occurring regions of similar density within the material will be manifested as a peak in the correlation function.

*   Fitting of SESANS Data

*   Data from Spin-Echo SANS measurements can now be loaded and fitted. The data will be plotted against the correct axes and models will automatically perform a Hankel transform in order to calculate SESANS from a SANS model.

*   A file converter tool for multi-file single-column data sets has been added (eg, BSL and some other SAXS instrument formats)

*   The way that orientation (and thereby orientational distribution) is defined is being refactored to address long standing issues and user comments. **In this release, however, only models with symmetry (e.g. a=b) have been converted to the new definitions.** The rest (a <> b <> c - e.g. parellelepiped) maintain the same definition as in previous versions of SasView and will be converted in SasView 4.2. Please consult the help documentation to see which definition is being used for a given model.

*   **SasView 4.1 will probably be the last version to support user plug-in models written for SasView versions 3.x and earlier.** Any such models should be re-written or converted to the new plug-in model architecture. Please consult the help documentation. Additional (detailed) guidance can be found [here](https://github.com/Sasview/sasview/wiki/ModelConvInst).

*   Other new features include:

*   Support for the saving and loading of simultaneous and constrained fits
*   Loading of Save States from SasView v3.x.y using new _sasmodel_ model names
*   Support for the saving and loading of projects with 2D fits
*   OpenCL is disabled by default but can be enabled through the Fitting menu option
*   Data and theory fields are now independently expandable
*   Loading a project no longer appends to an existing session but instead removes all existing data, fits, and plots
