---
layout: post
title: SasView 5.0.6 pre-release available for testing!
tags: [highlight 2023-02-09]
highlight: 2023-02-09
---

The Development Team is pleased to announce that the forthcoming new release of
SasView, version 5.0.6, is now available for beta-testing.

5.0.6 is strictly a bug fix release addressing many of the top issues identified
by the user community, particularly usability issues.
 
At a number of recent conferences, including SAS2022 in Brazil, there has been much
discussion about how more of the user base could contribute to this community
development effort. Some of the low hanging fruit identified in these discussions
were in documentation (verification and editing) and helping to test new releases.
In that vein, we are hoping that many of you will be able to find some time to install
and test this beta release. Feel free to also ask others you feel would be willing
and able to do so.
 
You can download Mac & Windows installers for 5.0.6rc1 [here](https://github.com/SasView/sasview/releases/tag/v5.0.6rc1).
This ’rc1’ stands for ’release candidate 1’ but will appear in-program as ’b1’ for
’beta 1’. For those of you that are Linux users, we will provide a conda install for
the full release but are not doing so for these beta releases for technical reasons.
 
Whilst installing the program, please also take a moment to review the accompanying
Release Notes at the link above.
 
**The testing window will run until the end of February 2023.** Please report any issues
when installing/using the program to the usual help@sasview.org or, if you prefer,
complete a [GitHub bug report](https://github.com/SasView/sasview/issues/new?template=bug_report.md).
 
When reporting back, please make it clear that you are testing version 5.0.6rc1/5.0.6b1
and also provide us with the platform you are using (ie, Windows, Mac) and your specific
operating system version. But it would also be great to hear from you, again including
the platform/OS you use and what parts of SasView you used, if you do not encounter any
problems!
 
Thank you for your continued help and support!
 
_The SasView Development Team_
