---
layout: post
title: Version 6.1.0
tags: [release, download]
---

[Version 6.1.0](https://github.com/SasView/sasview/releases/tag/v6.1.0) was
released on Jul 3, 2025!

This is a MAJOR release with a number of new features, enhancements, and bug
fixes. You can find an overview of the new features in the 'What's New'
window displayed when SasView starts.

**New Features**

* _Size Distribution Analysis_: The new Size Distribution Analysis tool lets
  you extract a volume distribution of spheres and ellipsoids, with plans to
  include other shapes and distributions in the future. This tool has been
  benchmarked against [Irena](https://usaxs.xray.aps.anl.gov/software/irena).

* _Shape2SAS_: The new [Shape2SAS](https://journals.iucr.org/j/issues/2023/04/00/jl5064/index.html)
  tool lets you construct real space models from simple building blocks and
  generate the resulting SAS curve.
  NB: This tool should be considered experimental. User feedback is welcomed.

* _MuMag_: The new [MuMag](https://journals.iucr.org/j/issues/2022/04/00/ei5079/index.html)
  tool lets you extract micromagnetic properties from a series of unpolarized neutron experiments.
  NB: This tool should be considered experimental. User feedback is welcomed.

**Enhancements**

* The Inversion perspective now supports multiple tabs at the same time similar
  to the Fitting Widget. And multiple sets of data can also be loaded into one tab
  and processed in batch.
* Reparameterization editor
* Improvements to model editor
* Disallow user created models with names identical to build-in models
* Close all plots when required
* Fix LaTeX equation in Corfunc docs
* Whats new window also shows previous version information
* Fitting widget refactor
* Compatibility with Bumps 1.*
* Clear convergence plot before plotting new result
* Refactor bumps result views

**Bug Fixes**

* Error loading 1D date into Corfunc
* Fixed documentation crashing on some Windows 10 systems
* Partial fix for custom plot labels
* Fix plot bounds
* Fix mousemove warning in matplotlib plots

For more details, please see the Release Notes which are now available from the program Help or online.

**New Models**

No new models have been added to SasView or the [Model Marketplace](https://marketplace.sasview.org/) 
since v6.0.1 was released.

